Python OOP Assignment

Q1. What is the purpose of Python's OOP?
A. It is used to create and implement behaviour and attributes to functions and use these properties via objects. It also helps to implement concepts like inheritance, polymorphism, etc.

Q2. Where does an inheritance search look for an attribute?
A. It looks in the parent class.

Q3. How do you distinguish between a class object and an instance object?
A. Class object will have all the attributed of a class but instance object will have the particular attribute 

Q4. What makes the first argument in a class’s method function special?
A. It is 'self' that refers to the object memory location

Q5. What is the purpose of the init method?
A. Init method is used to initialise the instance variables for a class.

Q6. What is the process for creating a class instance?
A. object_name= class_name(attribute values list)

Q7. What is the process for creating a class?
A. Keyword class is used followed by the name. Then we define the _init_ method to initialise the attributes followed by various other methods to encapsulte the behaviour of the class.

Q8. How would you define the superclasses of a class?
A. It is the immidiate parent class of a class.

class Employee(Person):

    def __init__(self,emp_name, id_num, salary, designation):
        self.idnumber = id_num
        self.emp_salary = salary
        self.emp_designation = designation
        
        super().__init__(emp_name)

Q9. What is the relationship between classes and modules?
A. We can associate modules with the attributes using a class.

Q10. How do you make instances and classes?
A. 
class Employee:

    def __init__(self, name, salary ):
        self.emp_name = name
        self.emp_salary = salary
    def displayEmployeeInfo(self):
        print("Employee name : ",self.emp_name, " , Employee Salary : ",self.emp_salary)

emp1 = Employee('Harmeet', 10000)


Q11. Where and how should be class attributes created?
A. Inside the class before creating the methods.

Q12. Where and how are instance attributes created?
A. Inside _init_ method using self keyword.

Q13. What does the term "self" in a Python class mean?
A. Self means it is refering to the object memory location itself

Q14. How does a Python class handle operator overloading?
A. Changing the definition and use of operators using class methods.

Q15. When do you consider allowing operator overloading of your classes?
A. When we need some custom behaviour of the operator.

Q16. What is the most popular form of operator overloading?
A. Addition operator, it adds numbers if used between integers and concatenates if used between string variables

Q17. What are the two most important concepts to grasp in order to comprehend Python OOP code?
A. Inheritance and polymorphism

Q18. Describe three applications for exception processing.
A. Error handling
Capture particular errors and their classification
For continuous processing even if errors appear

Q19. What happens if you don't do something extra to treat an exception?
A. Code run is disrutped or code may crash as well

Q20. What are your options for recovering from an exception in your script?
A. Finally block

Q21. Describe two methods for triggering exceptions in your script.
A. Try - captures exceptions raised by the code
Raise - used for manually capturing errors using customs exceptions

Q22. Identify two methods for specifying actions to be executed at termination time, regardless of whether or not an exception exists.
A. Finally statement 

Q23. What is the purpose of the try statement?
A. To enclose some code within a block that may raise an error

Q24. What are the two most popular try statement variations?
A. 1) try except else 
2) try except else finally

Q25. What is the purpose of the raise statement?
A. Used for manually capturing errors using customs exceptions

Q26. What does the assert statement do, and what other statement is it like?
A. To check if certain conditions are met before the execution of code. It is similar to if statement.

Q27. What is the purpose of the with/as argument, and what other statement is it like?
A. With statment is used to open and read files, similar to for statement.

Q28. What are *args, **kwargs?
A. *args is used to pass variable number of arguments in a funciton. The arguments are non keyword, variable length.
**kwargs is used to pass variable number of arguments in a funciton. The arguments are keyword, variable length.

Q29. How can I pass optional or keyword parameters from one function to another?

Q30. What are Lambda Functions?
A. They are used to create a function like code in a single line

Q31. Explain Inheritance in Python with an example?
A. It is a way for a class to inherit attributes and methods from another class.
class Person():
    def __init__(self, name):
        self.name = name 

    def displayName(self):
        print(self.name) 

    def isEmployed(self):
        print(self.name," is Un-Employed !!")

class Employee(Person):

    def isEmployed(self):
        print(self.name," is Employed !!")

Q32. Suppose class C inherits from classes A and B as class C(A,B).Classes A and B both have their own versions of method func(). If we call func() from an object of class C, which version gets invoked?
A. A

Q33. Which methods/functions do we use to determine the type of instance and inheritance?
A. isinstance() and issubclass()

Q34.Explain the use of the 'nonlocal' keyword in Python.
A. It is used in nested functions for a reference to a variable in parent function. Cannot be used for global or local variable.

Q35. What is the global keyword?
A. It is used to declare global variable from inside a function